README.md, before:

# CI-Kit: Flutter GitHub Workflows

A collection of reusable GitHub workflows and actions for Flutter projects, providing automated CI/CD pipelines for Android builds, testing, and release management.

## Quick Install

Install the workflows in your Flutter repository with a single command:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lumicrafte/ci-kit/main/install.sh | bash
```

Or download and run the installer:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lumicrafte/ci-kit/main/install.sh -o install.sh
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh
```

### Install Specific Version

Download the installer and install a specific version by providing a tag or branch name:

```bash
# Download the installer
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lumicrafte/ci-kit/main/install.sh -o install.sh
chmod +x install.sh

# Install specific version tag
./install.sh v1.0.0

# Or install from a specific branch
./install.sh develop
```

Or in one command:

```bash
# Install specific version
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lumicrafte/ci-kit/main/install.sh | bash -s v1.0.0
```

### Updating Workflows

To update to the latest version, download and run the installer again:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lumicrafte/ci-kit/main/install.sh | bash
```

Or to update to a specific version:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lumicrafte/ci-kit/main/install.sh | bash -s v1.0.0
```

If you already have `install.sh` downloaded, you can simply run:

```bash
./install.sh           # Latest version
./install.sh v1.0.0    # Specific version
```

## What's Included

### Workflows

- **ci.yml** - Continuous Integration workflow for automated testing and builds
- **manual-build.yml** - Manual trigger for building Android releases
- **publish-playstore.yml** - Publish app bundles to Google Play Store tracks
- **promote-playstore.yml** - Promote releases between Play Store tracks
- **update-playstore-listing.yml** - Update Play Store listing metadata (title, descriptions, screenshots, graphics)
- **tag-validation.yml** - Validates version tags and ensures proper versioning

### Custom Actions

- **setup-android-signing** - Configures Android app signing with keystore
- **setup-flutter** - Sets up Flutter SDK with caching
- **build-android** - Builds Android APK/AAB with configurable options
- **process-release-notes** - Processes multilingual release notes for Play Store
- **validate-playstore-secrets** - Validates Play Store configuration (secrets and variables)
- **validate-playstore-structure** - Validates .playstore directory structure and files
- **process-listing-metadata** - Processes .playstore files into API-ready format
- **update-playstore-listing** - Updates Play Store listing via Google Play API

## Configuration

After installation, configure these variables in your GitHub repository or organization:

Go to **Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions → Variables** and add:

> **Note:** Variables can be set at the organization level and inherited by all repositories. Individual repositories can override organization-level variables by setting their own values.

### Required Variables (for release builds)

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `ANDROID_KEYSTORE_BASE64` | Base64 encoded keystore file | *([see below](#setting-up-android-signing))* |
| `ANDROID_KEY_PROPERTIES` | Key properties file content | *([see below](#setting-up-android-signing))* |
| `PLAY_STORE_PACKAGE_NAME` | Your app's package name (for Play Store publishing) | `com.example.myapp` |

### Required Secrets (for Play Store publishing)

| Secret | Description | Example |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `PLAY_STORE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT` | Service account JSON from Google Play Console | *([see below](#setting-up-play-store-publishing))* |

### Optional Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `FLUTTER_VERSION` | Flutter SDK version | `3.35.x` |
| `JAVA_VERSION` | Java JDK version | `17` |

### Setting Up Android Signing

#### 1. Create Base64 Keystore

```bash
base64 -w 0 android/app/upload-keystore.jks > keystore.base64
```

Copy the contents of `keystore.base64` and paste it as the value for `ANDROID_KEYSTORE_BASE64` variable.

#### 2. Create Key Properties

Create a variable named `ANDROID_KEY_PROPERTIES` with this format:

```properties
storePassword=YOUR_STORE_PASSWORD
keyPassword=YOUR_KEY_PASSWORD
keyAlias=YOUR_KEY_ALIAS
storeFile=upload-keystore.jks
```

Replace the placeholders with your actual keystore credentials.

### Setting Up Play Store Publishing

#### 1. Create Service Account in Google Cloud Console

1. Go to [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com)
2. Select your project (or create a new one)
3. Navigate to **IAM & Admin → Service Accounts**
4. Click **Create Service Account**
5. Name it (e.g., "GitHub Actions Publisher")
6. Click **Create and Continue**
7. Skip granting roles (permissions handled in Play Console)
8. Click **Done**
9. Click on the created service account → **Keys** tab
10. **Add Key → Create new key → JSON**
11. Download the JSON file (keep it secure!)
12. Note the service account email (looks like `name@project-id.iam.gserviceaccount.com`)

#### 2. Grant Permissions in Google Play Console

1. Go to [Google Play Console](https://play.google.com/console)
2. Navigate to **Users and permissions** (left sidebar)
3. Click **Invite new users**
4. Enter the **service account email** from step 1
5. **Option A - Create Permission Group (Recommended):**
   - Click **Create and manage permission groups**
   - Click **Create permission group**
   - Name it (e.g., "API Publishers")
   - In **Account permissions** tab, select:
     - ✅ Release to production, exclude devices, and use Play App Signing
     - ✅ Release apps to testing tracks
     - ✅ Manage store presence
   - In **App permissions** tab, select your app and grant the same permissions
   - Click **Create**
   - Go back to invite user, assign the permission group

   **Option B - Direct Permissions:**
   - Select permissions manually in both Account and App tabs
   - Grant the same permissions listed above

6. Click **Invite user** / **Send invite**

#### 3. Configure Secrets and Variables

**GitHub Repository → Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions:**

**Secrets tab:**
- `PLAY_STORE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT`: Paste the entire content of the downloaded JSON file from step 1

**Variables tab:**
- `PLAY_STORE_PACKAGE_NAME`: Your app's package name (e.g., `com.example.app`)

## Usage

### Publishing to Play Store

**Publish new build:**
1. **Build**: Go to **Actions → Manual Build**
   - Click **Run workflow**
   - Select "Build Android App Bundle Release"
   - Click **Run workflow**
   - Wait for build to complete
   - Copy the workflow run URL from your browser (e.g., `https://github.com/owner/repo/actions/runs/123456`)

2. **Publish**: Go to **Actions → Publish to Play Store**
   - Click **Run workflow**
   - Paste the **build run URL** (from step 1)
   - Select **track** (internal, alpha, beta, or production)
   - Select **release status**:
     - `draft` - Save release for manual review (use for unpublished/draft apps)
     - `completed` - Publish immediately (default)
     - `inProgress` - Start staged rollout
     - `halted` - Pause an existing rollout
   - Optional: Add release notes and configure rollout percentage
   - Click **Run workflow**

**Important for first-time releases:**
- If your app is not yet published, use `release_status: draft`
- After the first manual publish through Play Console, use `release_status: completed`

**Promote between tracks:**
- **Actions → Promote Play Store Release** → Select from/to tracks
- Keeps existing release notes unless you provide new ones

**Available tracks:** internal → alpha → beta → production

### Updating Play Store Listing

Update your app's Play Store listing (title, descriptions, screenshots, graphics) without publishing a new version.

#### 1. Setup .playstore Directory

Create the following structure in your repository:

```
.playstore/
├── metadata.yaml              # App details (category, contact, privacy policy)
├── app-info.yaml              # Multi-locale app info (title, descriptions)
├── graphics/
│   ├── icon.png               # 512x512 app icon
│   ├── feature-graphic.png    # 1024x500 feature graphic
│   └── promo-graphic.png      # 180x120 promo graphic (optional)
└── screenshots/
    ├── en-US/
    │   ├── phone/             # 2-8 phone screenshots (PNG/JPG)
    │   ├── tablet/            # Tablet screenshots (optional)
    │   └── wear/              # Wear screenshots (optional)
    └── es-ES/                 # Additional locales...
        └── phone/
```

#### 2. Configure metadata.yaml

```yaml
category: GAME_PUZZLE  # See Google Play categories
contact:
  website: https://example.com
  email: support@example.com
  phone: "+1234567890"
privacy_policy_url: https://example.com/privacy
default_language: en-US
```

#### 3. Configure app-info.yaml

```yaml
locales:
  en-US:
    title: "My Awesome App"                    # Max 30 characters
    short_description: "Quick puzzle game"     # Max 80 characters
    full_description: |                        # Max 4000 characters
      A detailed description of the app.
      Multiple lines supported.

      Features:
      - Feature 1
      - Feature 2
    video: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=..."  # Optional

  es-ES:
    title: "Mi Aplicación Increíble"
    short_description: "Juego de rompecabezas rápido"
    full_description: |
      Una descripción detallada de la aplicación...
```

#### 4. Add Graphics

- **Icon**: 512x512 PNG at `.playstore/graphics/icon.png`
- **Feature Graphic**: 1024x500 PNG/JPG at `.playstore/graphics/feature-graphic.png`
- **Screenshots**: 320-3840px PNG/JPG (2-8 per device type)

#### 5. Run Update Workflow

Go to **Actions → Update Play Store Listing**:

1. Select what to update:
   - ☑️ Update app details (metadata.yaml)
   - ☑️ Update app info (app-info.yaml)
   - ☑️ Update icon
   - ☑️ Update feature graphic
   - ☑️ Update screenshots

2. Optional: Specify locales (e.g., `en-US,es-ES`) or leave empty for all

3. Optional: Enable dry run to validate without publishing

4. Click **Run workflow**

**Tips:**
- Use dry run first to validate your files
- You can update individual components without touching others
- Changes go live immediately (no draft mode for listing updates)
- All text fields have character limits - validation will catch issues

## License

MIT

Commit message:

fix: handle missing app case in console

README.md, after:

# CI-Kit: Flutter GitHub Workflows

A collection of reusable GitHub workflows and actions for Flutter projects, providing automated CI/CD pipelines for Android builds, testing, and release management.

## Quick Install

Install the workflows in your Flutter repository with a single command:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lumicrafte/ci-kit/main/install.sh | bash
```

Or download and run the installer:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lumicrafte/ci-kit/main/install.sh -o install.sh
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh
```

### Install Specific Version

Download the installer and install a specific version by providing a tag or branch name:

```bash
# Download the installer
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lumicrafte/ci-kit/main/install.sh -o install.sh
chmod +x install.sh

# Install specific version tag
./install.sh v1.0.0

# Or install from a specific branch
./install.sh develop
```

Or in one command:

```bash
# Install specific version
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lumicrafte/ci-kit/main/install.sh | bash -s v1.0.0
```

### Updating Workflows

To update to the latest version, download and run the installer again:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lumicrafte/ci-kit/main/install.sh | bash
```

Or to update to a specific version:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lumicrafte/ci-kit/main/install.sh | bash -s v1.0.0
```

If you already have `install.sh` downloaded, you can simply run:

```bash
./install.sh           # Latest version
./install.sh v1.0.0    # Specific version
```

## What's Included

### Workflows

- **ci.yml** - Continuous Integration workflow for automated testing and builds
- **manual-build.yml** - Manual trigger for building Android releases
- **publish-playstore.yml** - Publish app bundles to Google Play Store tracks
- **promote-playstore.yml** - Promote releases between Play Store tracks
- **update-playstore-listing.yml** - Update Play Store listing metadata (title, descriptions, screenshots, graphics)
- **tag-validation.yml** - Validates version tags and ensures proper versioning

### Custom Actions

- **setup-android-signing** - Configures Android app signing with keystore
- **setup-flutter** - Sets up Flutter SDK with caching
- **build-android** - Builds Android APK/AAB with configurable options
- **process-release-notes** - Processes multilingual release notes for Play Store
- **validate-playstore-secrets** - Validates Play Store configuration (secrets and variables)
- **validate-playstore-structure** - Validates .playstore directory structure and files
- **process-listing-metadata** - Processes .playstore files into API-ready format
- **update-playstore-listing** - Updates Play Store listing via Google Play API

## Configuration

After installation, configure these variables in your GitHub repository or organization:

Go to **Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions → Variables** and add:

> **Note:** Variables can be set at the organization level and inherited by all repositories. Individual repositories can override organization-level variables by setting their own values.

### Required Variables (for release builds)

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `ANDROID_KEYSTORE_BASE64` | Base64 encoded keystore file | *([see below](#setting-up-android-signing))* |
| `ANDROID_KEY_PROPERTIES` | Key properties file content | *([see below](#setting-up-android-signing))* |
| `PLAY_STORE_PACKAGE_NAME` | Your app's package name (for Play Store publishing) | `com.example.myapp` |

### Required Secrets (for Play Store publishing)

| Secret | Description | Example |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `PLAY_STORE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT` | Service account JSON from Google Play Console | *([see below](#setting-up-play-store-publishing))* |

### Optional Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `FLUTTER_VERSION` | Flutter SDK version | `3.35.x` |
| `JAVA_VERSION` | Java JDK version | `17` |

### Setting Up Android Signing

#### 1. Create Base64 Keystore

```bash
base64 -w 0 android/app/upload-keystore.jks > keystore.base64
```

Copy the contents of `keystore.base64` and paste it as the value for `ANDROID_KEYSTORE_BASE64` variable.

#### 2. Create Key Properties

Create a variable named `ANDROID_KEY_PROPERTIES` with this format:

```properties
storePassword=YOUR_STORE_PASSWORD
keyPassword=YOUR_KEY_PASSWORD
keyAlias=YOUR_KEY_ALIAS
storeFile=upload-keystore.jks
```

Replace the placeholders with your actual keystore credentials.

### Setting Up Play Store Publishing

> **⚠️ IMPORTANT PREREQUISITE:** Before using these workflows to publish to Play Store, you must **manually create your app** in the Play Console first. The Google Play API cannot create new apps - it can only manage existing ones.
>
> **To create your app:**
> 1. Go to [Google Play Console](https://play.google.com/console)
> 2. Click **"Create app"**
> 3. Fill in app details (name, default language, app type, category)
> 4. Use the **exact package name** that matches your Flutter app (found in `android/app/build.gradle`)
> 5. Complete required setup sections:
>    - App access
>    - Content rating questionnaire
>    - Target audience and content
>    - Store presence (at minimum)
> 6. Once created, you can use the workflows below to automate publishing
>
> Without creating the app first, the workflow will fail with a clear error message.

#### 1. Create Service Account in Google Cloud Console

1. Go to [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com)
2. Select your project (or create a new one)
3. Navigate to **IAM & Admin → Service Accounts**
4. Click **Create Service Account**
5. Name it (e.g., "GitHub Actions Publisher")
6. Click **Create and Continue**
7. Skip granting roles (permissions handled in Play Console)
8. Click **Done**
9. Click on the created service account → **Keys** tab
10. **Add Key → Create new key → JSON**
11. Download the JSON file (keep it secure!)
12. Note the service account email (looks like `name@project-id.iam.gserviceaccount.com`)

#### 2. Grant Permissions in Google Play Console

1. Go to [Google Play Console](https://play.google.com/console)
2. Navigate to **Users and permissions** (left sidebar)
3. Click **Invite new users**
4. Enter the **service account email** from step 1
5. **Option A - Create Permission Group (Recommended):**
   - Click **Create and manage permission groups**
   - Click **Create permission group**
   - Name it (e.g., "API Publishers")
   - In **Account permissions** tab, select:
     - ✅ Release to production, exclude devices, and use Play App Signing
     - ✅ Release apps to testing tracks
     - ✅ Manage store presence
   - In **App permissions** tab, select your app and grant the same permissions
   - Click **Create**
   - Go back to invite user, assign the permission group

   **Option B - Direct Permissions:**
   - Select permissions manually in both Account and App tabs
   - Grant the same permissions listed above

6. Click **Invite user** / **Send invite**

#### 3. Configure Secrets and Variables

**GitHub Repository → Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions:**

**Secrets tab:**
- `PLAY_STORE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT`: Paste the entire content of the downloaded JSON file from step 1

**Variables tab:**
- `PLAY_STORE_PACKAGE_NAME`: Your app's package name (e.g., `com.example.app`)

## Usage

### Publishing to Play Store

**Publish new build:**
1. **Build**: Go to **Actions → Manual Build**
   - Click **Run workflow**
   - Select "Build Android App Bundle Release"
   - Click **Run workflow**
   - Wait for build to complete
   - Copy the workflow run URL from your browser (e.g., `https://github.com/owner/repo/actions/runs/123456`)

2. **Publish**: Go to **Actions → Publish to Play Store**
   - Click **Run workflow**
   - Paste the **build run URL** (from step 1)
   - Select **track** (internal, alpha, beta, or production)
   - Select **release status**:
     - `draft` - Save release for manual review (use for unpublished/draft apps)
     - `completed` - Publish immediately (default)
     - `inProgress` - Start staged rollout
     - `halted` - Pause an existing rollout
   - Optional: Add release notes and configure rollout percentage
   - Click **Run workflow**

**Important for first-time releases:**
- If your app is not yet published, use `release_status: draft`
- After the first manual publish through Play Console, use `release_status: completed`

**Promote between tracks:**
- **Actions → Promote Play Store Release** → Select from/to tracks
- Keeps existing release notes unless you provide new ones

**Available tracks:** internal → alpha → beta → production

### Updating Play Store Listing

Update your app's Play Store listing (title, descriptions, screenshots, graphics) without publishing a new version.

#### 1. Setup .playstore Directory

Create the following structure in your repository:

```
.playstore/
├── metadata.yaml              # App details (category, contact, privacy policy)
├── app-info.yaml              # Multi-locale app info (title, descriptions)
├── graphics/
│   ├── icon.png               # 512x512 app icon
│   ├── feature-graphic.png    # 1024x500 feature graphic
│   └── promo-graphic.png      # 180x120 promo graphic (optional)
└── screenshots/
    ├── en-US/
    │   ├── phone/             # 2-8 phone screenshots (PNG/JPG)
    │   ├── tablet/            # Tablet screenshots (optional)
    │   └── wear/              # Wear screenshots (optional)
    └── es-ES/                 # Additional locales...
        └── phone/
```

#### 2. Configure metadata.yaml

```yaml
category: GAME_PUZZLE  # See Google Play categories
contact:
  website: https://example.com
  email: support@example.com
  phone: "+1234567890"
privacy_policy_url: https://example.com/privacy
default_language: en-US
```

#### 3. Configure app-info.yaml

```yaml
locales:
  en-US:
    title: "My Awesome App"                    # Max 30 characters
    short_description: "Quick puzzle game"     # Max 80 characters
    full_description: |                        # Max 4000 characters
      A detailed description of the app.
      Multiple lines supported.

      Features:
      - Feature 1
      - Feature 2
    video: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=..."  # Optional

  es-ES:
    title: "Mi Aplicación Increíble"
    short_description: "Juego de rompecabezas rápido"
    full_description: |
      Una descripción detallada de la aplicación...
```

#### 4. Add Graphics

- **Icon**: 512x512 PNG at `.playstore/graphics/icon.png`
- **Feature Graphic**: 1024x500 PNG/JPG at `.playstore/graphics/feature-graphic.png`
- **Screenshots**: 320-3840px PNG/JPG (2-8 per device type)

#### 5. Run Update Workflow

Go to **Actions → Update Play Store Listing**:

1. Select what to update:
   - ☑️ Update app details (metadata.yaml)
   - ☑️ Update app info (app-info.yaml)
   - ☑️ Update icon
   - ☑️ Update feature graphic
   - ☑️ Update screenshots

2. Optional: Specify locales (e.g., `en-US,es-ES`) or leave empty for all

3. Optional: Enable dry run to validate without publishing

4. Click **Run workflow**

**Tips:**
- Use dry run first to validate your files
- You can update individual components without touching others
- Changes go live immediately (no draft mode for listing updates)
- All text fields have character limits - validation will catch issues

## License

MIT
